All that's left now is to actually
build out these components.
So in order to do that,
we need to add support for
building with both React and Solid.
Now, I am doing this as
a demonstration of how this works.
If you are building a net new Astro site,
then you probably don't want to
introduce multiple frameworks
because using Astro to run a React
component that you're hydrating,
you still have to load React.
So you're gonna get that 30-something
kilobytes of Reacts booting script when
you partially hydrate a component.
So the same will be true for
Spelt, for Solid, for
any of the other frameworks
that you would use.
So if you can help it,
you probably don't want to do that.
You probably wanna pick one and
stick with just the one for
the sake of your bundle size.
But why I think this is so cool and
why I think it's important to teach,
is that, for
many of us we're working on Teams where
the app isn't all built in one framework.
When I was at IBM Cloud, for example,
early on, they didn't have enforcement for
everyone must use this design system or
this specific tool.
So some of the app was built in Vue and
some of the app was built in React.
And later when they wanted
to merge things together,
there wasn't really a clear
path forward on how to do that.
And so they had to make a choice between
leave it as is or rebuild the entire app.
Neither one of those is
really a good solution, but
because we didn't have time to
halt all feature production,
they just never got around to
actually rebuilding the app.
There was this like slow chipping away
at it over a massive amount of time.
What Astro allows is for you to make that
incremental change much more quickly
because you can take those Vue components
and those React components and
put them together in a way that
lets you build under one framework.
And then as you have time, if you're gonna
update a component you can convert it
from, if you're say you're
dropping React in favor of you.
When you work on a React component,
just swap it over to Vue now drop it in.
And then you're incrementally
adopting these features,
as opposed to having to do a drop
everything and rebuild the whole app.
It allows for, I think a more realistic
way of adopting new technology than then
some of the guidance that we get, which is
yeah, just like allocate three months to
drop everything and
build your whole app in our framework.
It's not usually feasible,
right, unless you're Greenfield.
And if you are Greenfield, you don't have
to make that choice, you can just choose
your favorite component framework and
you're off to the races.
So to do this, what we're gonna do is we
are going to open up the terminal and
I'm going to install support for
Solid and React in Astro.
Now here's the thing that's
really cool about this.
What I had expected to do when I
first started working with Astro,
is I thought I was gonna have
to npm install a plug in, and
then I was gonna have to figure out how
to make my Solid and my React stuff work.
And then also I was gonna have
to update some Astro config.
But Astro knows how to run React and
Solid inside of Astro.
So instead, they give us a CLI and
we just run npx astro add, and
then we put in the name of the thing
we wanna use, so react and solid.
And check this out, I love this.
They know not only the Astro plugins, but
they also know the other things we need.
We're gonna need the TypeScript types.
We're gonna need React and ReactDOM.
We're gonna need SolidJS.
Those components or those
dependencies are part of the addition
of this framework to your library.
Now you don't have to do this if you have
a very specific version that you're pinned
to or you have very specific preferences
about how this stuff is done,
you are able to just opt out
of this by pressing n here.
But I don't have this preferences,
I'm very happy to use the defaults.
So I'm gonna let them install
those dependencies for me.
And here's where this really gets magical.
Now they show me my config file.
And they say, can we update your config so
this just works?
It's like, hey, yeah,
that's great, I love not typing.
And then they give you options
on updating your tsconfig,
and sure, that's fine, we can do this.
Now what we're getting here is we get
the jsx and the jsxImportSource of React.
I'm actually gonna change that
because I default to Solid.
So I wanna open this up and
I wanna go into my tsconfig.
And I'm going to change this to preserve
and I'm gonna change this one to solid.js.
And honestly, it's up to you, if I was
going to continue building this site out,
I would be defaulting to Solid components
as opposed to React components.
So I'm gonna make it the default and
then explicitly override for React.
If you want to do it the other way,
you're also welcome to do that.
And the override I'll show
you as we get to it, so
don't worry if I'm saying
words that don't make sense.
All will be revealed in due time.
So, we've got our, our tsconfig
set up here to run Solid stuff.
And I'm gonna go ahead and start
building out the cart component first.
So, we're gonna create a new file.
This one's gonna use two files because
I'm using a Solid component and
I need some styles.
So the first thing that I'm gonna set up,
is I'm actually gonna set up my,
styles and
that is going to be cart.module.css.
And this is built into Astro, this is
something that I am also a huge fan of
because it makes my life so much easier.
So the power of this is
that I want scoped styles.
I don't necessarily want to have to
install CSS and JS only for my components.
And I can't use the single file style
approach of putting a style tag at
the bottom of my Solid components
because that's not how Solid works.
So instead I can use the CSS module spec,
which has the same general approach.
It gives me scope styles per module.
The API is a little bit different,
but I'm still just writing CSS.
So I can go up into my Styles
from the workshop assets,
grab this components, cart.module.css.
Let's copy that and drop it in here.
And this is standard CSS,
nothing magical happen in here.
But then inside of my cart,
which we haven't created yet,
Going to create a new
component in here and
this is gonna be called cart.tsx.
And this one is gonna have quite a bit of
imports because this is gonna be working
with our store,
this is gonna be working with our styles.
And it's gonna be working with
a little bit of Solid.js internals.
If you've never used Solid, don't worry,
this is not about learning Solid.
There are great resources
if you want to do that.
I'm going to be kind of glossing over
the technical details of using Solid.
But if you've used React,
a lot of this is gonna look familiar, so
don't worry too much.
Next, we're gonna get the pieces
we need out of our store.
So we start with the cart,
then we wanna get
removeItemFromCart and
we want the subtotal.
And those are all gonna come
out of our stores cart.
Then, I'm gonna get the styles that I
just set up from cart.module.css.
And finally,
some stuff that I need from Solid.
I need the show component and
the createSignal.
createSignal is similar to the way
that useState works in React.
Same general idea, just a little
different, a little solid flavored.
So then I've got that format currency,
I'm gonna need that again.
So I'm actually just gonna go right
into the shop-items and copy it and
then paste it.
Again, I could have put this
into a utility file, but
it's just not big enough.
I don't mind duplicating this code